.TH ZRAM-WRITEBACK 8 "2026-06-01" "zram-writeback 1.0.0" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
zram-writeback \- pressure-aware zram recompression and writeback controller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zram-writeback
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B zram-writeback
configures and operates a zram swap device using a primary hot-path compressor,
secondary recompression algorithms, idle-page tracking, writeback budgets and
memory PSI based policy transitions.
.PP
The default policy uses lz4 as the primary compressor, lzo-rle for idle reusable
pages, zstd for huge idle pages, and a second zstd priority for huge non-idle
pages under pressure.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B validate
Validate configuration and warn about missing runtime zram sysfs attributes.
.TP
.B setup
Configure zram sysfs attributes, mkswap and swapon.
.TP
.B run-pass
Run one policy pass.
.TP
.B daemon
Run policy passes in a foreground loop suitable for systemd.
.TP
.B budget-reset
Reset the zram writeback_limit budget.
.TP
.B status
Print JSON status, pressure state and zram metrics.
.TP
.B reset
Reset the zram device. Requires --force-reset if active swap is detected.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "--config " PATH
Use an alternate configuration file. Default is /etc/zram-writeback.conf.
.TP
.B --dry-run
Log sysfs writes and commands without executing them.
.TP
.B --verbose
Enable additional logging.
.TP
.B --force-reset
Allow setup/reset to swapoff and reset an initialized zram device.
.TP
.BI "--state " STATE
Override policy state for run-pass. Valid states are normal, pressure and emergency.
.TP
.BI "--interval " SEC
Daemon loop interval in seconds.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/zram-writeback.conf
Main policy configuration.
.TP
.I /etc/default/zram-writeback
Environment file for systemd units.
.TP
.I /run/lock/zram-writeback-zram0.lock
Default per-device lock.
.TP
.I /var/lib/zram-writeback/budget.state
Emergency budget state.
.SH SECURITY
The writeback backing device may contain swapped memory and should be a dedicated
encrypted partition on systems that handle secrets. Do not share the backing
partition with a filesystem.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR swapon (8),
.BR mkswap (8),
.BR systemd.service (5),
.BR systemd.timer (5)
